# PB_Assignment
Assign Protein Blocks (PB) sequences to protein 3D structures.
Webserver for the provided scripts is also availble:
PBE-T: http://www.bo-protscience.fr/pbe/?page_id=10

#README generated by Swapnil MAHAJAN 21-03-2012
Protein Blocks:

PBs are a set of 16 pentapeptide structural motifs (de Brevern et al, Proteins 41:271-287, 2000). 
They are abstraction of the unique local backbone structures present in proteins and upon which the backbone model of the proteins can be built. 
Each of the 16 protein blocks is defined by a vector of 8 dihedral angles associated with five consecutive residues and represented by an alphabet character from a to p.

The scripts provided here convert a given PDB format protein structure file into 1D sequence of PBs .This reduced representation of structure is useful in structure analysis & comparison of proteins.


########################################################################################################
Protein Blocks (PBs) assignment scripts: main_run.pl and read_pdb.pl

USAGE:
main_run.pl should be run on linux or Mac OS. 
Please make sure that there is no white space (but a comma) between the 'pdb' and 'out' arguments.

perl main_run.pl pdb=path_of_pdb_file,out=output_directory random_number[optional]
e.g.
perl main_run.pl pdb=/Users/swapnil/WORK/pentaDB/1DWJ.pdb,out=/Users/swapnil/WORK/pentaDB/OUT 33

This command will assign PBs to all the chains in a single pdb file.
If you want to assign PBs to multiple pdb files you can write a simple shell script as follows:

***** 
** Please note that this version uses information only from the ATOM records of the PDB files.
** Therefore, the amino acid sequences provided as an output are also based on ATOM records.
** If the PDB file has missing residues then those missing residues will not be present in amino acid sequence file.
** We will addressed this issue in the next version of these scripts.
*****

###########################
for i in `cat pdb_id.list`;
do
perl main_run.pl pdb=path_of_pdb_files'_directory/$i,out=output_directory;
done
###########################

Where pdb_id.list contains the names of all the pdb files with extension as follows:
###########################
1dwj.pdb
1eas.ent
1hb4.pdb
###########################

Optional:
If the pdb file contains only one chain you can directly use read_pdb.pl to assign PBs as follows:
perl read_pdb.pl path_of_pdb_file output_directory

read_pdb.pl can be run on Windows OS, linux or Mac OS.


########################################################################################################
Citations:
Please cite following articles if you use these scripts:
(1) de Brevern A.G, Etchebest C. and Hazout S. Bayesian probabilistic approach for predicting backbone structures in terms of protein blocks. Proteins 41:271-287, (2000).
(2) Tyagi M, Sharma P, Swamy C.S, Cadet F, Srinivasan N, de Brevern A.G. and Offmann B. Protein Block Expert (PBE). A web-based protein structure analysis server using a structural alphabet. Nucleic Acids Res., 34:W119-W123, (2006).


Other related articles related to Protein Blocks:
* Mahajan S, de Brevern AG, Sanejouand YH, Srinivasan N, Offmann B. Use of a structural alphabet to find compatible folds for amino acid sequences. Protein Sci. 2015 Jan;24(1):145-53. doi: 10.1002/pro.2581. Epub 2014 Oct 25.
Swapnil Mahajan, Garima Agarwal, Mohammed Iftekhar, Bernard Offmann, Alexandre G. de Brevern and Narayanaswamy Srinivasan. DoSA: Database of Structural Alignments. Database (2013) 2013:bat048.
Swapnil Mahajan, Alexandre G. de Brevern, Bernard Offmann and Narayanaswamy Srinivasan. Correlation between local structural dynamics of proteins inferred from NMR ensembles and evolutionary dynamics of homologues of known structure. Journal of Biomolecular Structure & Dynamics (2013).
Gelly JC, Joseph AP, Srinivasan N, de Brevern AG. iPBA: a tool for protein structure comparison using sequence alignment strategies. Nucleic Acids Res. 2011, 39(Web Server issue):W18-23.
** Agnel Praveen Joseph, Garima Agarwal, Swapnil Mahajan, Jean-Christophe Gelly, Lakshmipuram S. Swapna, Bernard Offmann, Frédéric Cadet, Aurélie Bornot, Manoj Tyagi and Hélène Valadié, et al. A short survey on protein blocks. Biophysical Reviews (2010) 2(3):137-145
Protein short loop prediction in terms of a structural alphabet. Tyagi M, Bornot A, Offmann B, de Brevern AG. Comput Biol Chem. (2009) 33(4):329-33.
Tyagi M., de Brevern A.G., Srinivasan N., Offmann B. Protein structure mining using a structural alphabet. Proteins 71:920–937, (2008).
Offmann B., Tyagi M., de Brevern A.G. Local Protein Structures. Current Bioinformatics, 2, 165-202, 2007.
Tyagi M, Gowri V.S., Srinivasan N,  de Brevern A.G, & Offmann B. A substitution matrix for structural alphabet based on structural alignment of homologous proteins and its applications. Proteins 65(1) :32-39, (2006).
########################################################################################################
